# React Template

## Introduction

This template is based off of an ejected Create React App, it features some additional customizations and allows for control over the build step which are otherwise restricted within Creat React App.

You can use any styling option you prefer. The Webpack configuration does support CSS, Sass, and CSS Modules; however the Styled Components library is included as a production dependency, if you do not plan to use Styled Components, run `yarn remove {,@types/}styled-components` to remove both the library as well as its type definitions.

### Application Structure

The folder structure of this template is intended to promote organization and separation of concerns wherever possible.

#### .circleci

Contains a `config.yml` file which controls the CircleCI CI/CD platform.

#### .vscode

This folder includes some useful snippets and recommended extensions to improve your development experience. It also includes some settings to support the Eslint extension by pointing to the development configuration file.

#### config

This folder includes configuration files that support the tooling included with the structure.

**Note:** The `husky.config.js` and `importsort.config.js` files are saved at the root level of the project. This is necessary as those tools do not support a `--config` flag allowing for the configuration file to be stored elsewhere.

#### cypress

Cypress is an End to End (e2e) test runner that is used to verify that full user stories of the application work as intended.

#### dist

This folder is ignored in git, however it is generated at build time and is the target for build output.

#### docker

This folder includes files used in creating a Docker image for the application, which is the desired deployment method.

- `/nginx`: Contains `default.conf`, which is copied into the Docker container to serve the application.
- `docker-compose.yml`: Coposes the Docker image containing your application with a Certbot image which will enable automated SSL certificate generation.
- `Dockerfile`: Utilizes a multistep setup which results in a small image of your application with an Nginx web server.

#### public

This folder contains an `index.html` file for the application to mount to, icons, and a robots.txt file and manifest.json.

#### scripts

This folder contains scripts that are used to build and deploy the application.

#### src

The source code of the application.

- ##### app

  The root of the app is contained within the `App.tsx` file, which is then wrapped with all necessary wrapping components such as the `<BrowserRouter>` and `<React.StrictMode>` components in `Root.tsx`.

- ##### assets

  Static assets such as images.

- ##### components

  "Dumb" or presentational components are organized here by their complexity according to the Atomic Design philosophy. See [here](https://bradfrost.com/blog/post/atomic-web-design/) for a detailed description on the philosophy.

  - ###### atoms

    The most basic components of the application. Examples: Buttons, Cards, and Form Inputs.

  - ###### molecules

    Molecules are slightly more complex elements than Atoms. They will almost always be combinations of multiple Atoms to create larger components. Examples: Form Groups, Dropdown Menus, and Button Groups.

  - ###### organisms

    Organisms are complete UI components, combining multiple Atoms and Molecules to create full pieces of an application. Examples: Cards with several related pieces of information, and Form Builders.

  - ###### templates
    Templates are layouts for providing consistant structure to a page. Examples: Page Layouts, Three Column Layouts, Flexbox, Container

- ##### constants

  Constant variables that are referenced in multiple places throughout the app, Environment Variables are destructured from `process.env` and stored here.

- ##### containers

  Containers are implementations of components. Where components are agnostic, or display only, containers use those components in specific use-cases. Examples: Login Form, Profile Preview Card.

- ##### generated

  Files generated by a service will be stored in this folder. Example: Hooks generated by graphql-codegen.

- ##### graphql

  GraphQL queries and mutations are defined here. Then run the `graphql-codegen` script to generate typesafe hooks to interact with the GraphQL API. Examples: Login.graphql, GetCurrentUser.graphql.

- ##### hooks

  Hooks are abstractions of component logic, data loading, or behavior that can be reused across many components. They can return anything from pieces of state, to functions, to nothing at all (ie: they perform side effects), to even UI elements.

- ##### lib

  Third party libraries should be configured in this folder and then called where needed in the application. For example, The `<ApolloProvider>` and `apolloClient` are configured here and then used in the `<Root>`.

- ##### pages

  The `<Router>` is defined in the root of this folder, a component folder should be created in `pages` for each page of the application and then a route assigned within the `<Router>`'s `<Switch>`.

- ##### store

  All application level state, as well as type definitions should be stored here.

- ##### utils
  Utilities are helper functions, variables, and configurations to provide quality of life functionality across the application. The `serviceWorker` is also stored here. Example: capitalizeString, formikConfig.

#### tests

Unit and integration tests should be written here and a folder structure mirroring the `src` directory should be used to organize them. For example, the path for a file testing a Button component should be `tests/components/atoms/Button.test.tsx`.

#### types

Module type definitions should be created here.

## Available Scripts

In the project directory, you can run:

### `find src -name .gitkeep -delete`

Delete all .gitkeep files

### `yarn start`

Runs the app in the development mode.<br />
Open [http://localhost:3000](http://localhost:3000) to view it in the browser.

The page will reload if you make edits.<br />
You will also see any lint errors in the console.

### `yarn test`

Launches the test runner in the interactive watch mode.<br />
See the section about [running tests](https://facebook.github.io/create-react-app/docs/running-tests) for more information.

### `yarn build`

Builds the app for production to the `build` folder.<br />
It correctly bundles React in production mode and optimizes the build for the best performance.

The build is minified and the filenames include the hashes.<br />
Your app is ready to be deployed!

See the section about [deployment](https://facebook.github.io/create-react-app/docs/deployment) for more information.
